               * * *  WARNING * * *

This midmonth update is being provided with Version 8 
data files.  

These files are incompatible with past versions of 
Compulife's Internet Engine.

If you use the Windows version of Compulife, or the 
webquote option, or Compulife Basic (the mobile edition),
there is NOTHING that you have to do.  These services 
are being updated automatically.  Ignore this warning.

However, if you have Compulife's Internet Quote Engine,
which mans that our quoting software is actually running 
on your server, and you update the data files from your 
Windows PC version of Compulife to your server, then 
you will need to make sure that you do not place this 
rate update on your server until you have and are ready 
to implement the latest version of the quoting engine.

IF you failed to read this, and updated your server
without updating the engine, you can get the December
monthly update AGAIN, and NOT get this midmonth update.
The will give to the December 2016 version 7 data 
files that can be uploaded to your server, and you 
will not be able to implement this midmonth update
until you get the version 8 internet engine.



The following changes have been made to the December 2016  
edition of the Compulife Quotation System:

20.  MAPFRE Life Insurance - company/products added

December 20th - MAPFRE Life Insurance is introducing
their fully underwritten "Complete Term" series 
which offers a 10, 15 and 20 year term variations
on a fully underwritten basis.

The company also has simplified term products for 
which we have just received information.  We will
try to get those added shortly.

The fully underwritten products are only available
in MA at this time.


19.  VOYA Life Term - ANNOUNCEMENT

December 19th - The following will affect the Reliasar
and Reliastar of NY term and ROP term products in our
software.

  From a Voya Bulletin dated November 15, 2016:

  Effective December 30, 2016, Voya will suspend Voya 
  Indexed Universal Life-Guaranteed Death Benefit (IUL-GDB) 
  and all level-term insurance sales while continuing to 
  offer cash value life insurance products.

followed by:

  12/14/16 Last day to illustrate level-term products 
  and IUL-GDB on Presents and other illustration software

and

  12/30/16 Last day Voya will accept formal applications

and

 2/17/17 Last day to issue / reissue policies

Compulife plans to pull the products in the update next 
weekend unless anyone has any objections.

Clearly the products cannot be sold after December 30th.


18.  American Amicable Life Insurance Co - ROP products

December 19th - We are advised that the company
has introduced new ROP products/rates and further
advised that the products ONLY return 75% of the 
premiums at the end of the level period.

As this is ROSP (Return of Some of the Premiums)
or ROPP (Return of Partial Premiums), we will not 
be including these products in our software.  


17.  Occidential Life Insurance Co - ROP products

December 19th - We are advised that the company
has introduced new ROP products/rates and further
advised that the products ONLY return 75% of the 
premiums at the end of the level period.

As this is ROSP (Return of Some of the Premiums)
or ROPP (Return of Partial Premiums), we will not 
be including these products in our software.  


16.  US Life - waiver premium state correction

December 14th - One of our subscribers reported late
today that waiver premiums are NOT yet approved for
US Life's new term products.

These have been turned off, and a 10% coupon has been
issued to the agent who reported the problem.


15.  Lincoln National Life - state approval

December 14th - Lincoln National's new no lapse UL 
rates are now approved in OR.


14.  Lincoln National Life - state approval

December 14th - Lincoln National's new no lapse UL 
rates are now approved in OR.


13.  Pruco Life - state approval

December 12th - Pruco's new no lapse UL rates are 
now approved in FL.


12.  American General Life - waiver correction

December 12th - The minimum face amount for waiver
of premium is $100,000, even though the company has 
introduced new rates for $50,000.  The maximum face 
amount for waiver is $5 million.  Table ratings, 
which only apply to the "Special" rates found in
the "other" category, are only available for $100,000
and up.

You can get Select-a-Term for $50,000 to $99,999, 
you just can't get it with fries.


11.  Independent Order of Foresters - non-med change

December 12th - The maximum face amount for Forester's 
non-med 20, 25 and 30 is now $400,000.


10.  Lincoln National - quarterly mode back for UL

December 8th - Lincoln Nation has now confirmed that 
the quarterly mode for UL products is available, as 
long as it is EFT.  

The premiums were same for EFT and direct bill, so we
have simply turned them back on.

My last comment on this minor fiasco is that Lincoln
offers quarterly, but ONLY as an EFT.  Where EFT is
the rule, we quote EFT for ALL companies.  If annual 
premiums are direct bill (VIRTUALLY ALL COMPANIES)
then we quote that.


9.  American General Life Insurance - rate correction

December 7th - The following email instructions were
received from the company:

    An important validation was omitted in our recent 
    communications regarding SAT 2016. To our knowledge, 
    none of your systems are enforcing this new rule; 
    it is critical that we do. It has already generated 
    one issue that we’re having to resolve on an emergency 
    basis.

    The new validation is:  Do not allow FA 50k-99,999 
    if insured is over 70 y/o (71-80)

Let me translate this.  For 10 and 15 year term, the
minimum face amount for ages 71 and older, is $100,000.

For those who think what we do is easy, you can now 
see the challenges.

This has been fixed in this update.  I'm sorry if 
the undocumented requirement for the new $50,000 
band caught anyone.


8.  Lincoln National - quarterly mode back

December 7th - After we received a tip from a subscriber,
that Lincoln no longer offers quarterly modes, we did
what we always do, we checked with our contact at the
company who confirmed the quarterly mode was gone.

After another customer complained, today we received 
this qualifying comment from the company contact:

    Quarterly is still a payment option, but it’s 
    required to be done via eft not direct bill. 
    The modal factor is .262

This was the same factor we used before.  The company
wanted us to add a comment, that this is NOT direct
billed, but EFT.  We don't issue such comments, and 
think that is something you can get from the company
yourself, assuming you need to know it.

The company has still not advised if the quarterly
premiums for their UL, which they previously provided
were EFT or direct bill.  Until we hear about that, 
quarterly will not be available for UL.

As I said above, what we do is not that easy.


7.  American General Life Insurance - state approval

December 6th (2nd) - American General's new Select-a-Term
product are now approved in FL.

The old products have now been removed.


6.  American General Life Insurance Company - new product

December 6th - In addition to the new AG term rates, 
the company has once again introduced a 35 year level
premium option.  This udpate now has that option.

As this required reinstating the 35 year term category,
that category will not automatically be listed on the
webquote or Compulife Basic versions of the internet 
software.  If you need that category added to either, 
please let us know by email at:

service@compulife.com

Moving forward it will be added to new sites/services.


5.  Pacific Life Insurance Company - error corrected

December 6th - I inadvertently dropped the new Pacific 
Life PL Promise Term 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 from the 
December 5th midmonth update.  This is now corrected.


4.  American General Life Insurance Company - new rates

December 5th (2nd) - When I duplicated the OLD AG term 
plans for FL, and set up new product codes, I neglected 
to connect the renewal table files to those codes.  

Many thanks to the subscriber who alerted us to the 
problem.  It is now fixed.  A 10% coupon has been given.


3.  American General Life Insurance Company - new rates

December 5th - American General has introduced new rates 
for its Select-a-Term product series.  

The new rates are approved in all states except FL.


2.  United States Life Insurance Company - new rates

December 5th - US Life has introduced new rates for its
Select-a-Term product series.  


1.  Newest Version of Windows Program

December 5th - Compulife is upgrading our data files
from Version 7 to Version 8.  The new data format has
been created to be introduced in conjunction with a new
version of the Compulife internet quoting engine, designed 
to the ongoing piracy of our software. 

Yep, same crew, same ongoing problem.  The good news is
that we are steadily getting closer to our day in court.

If you are using the Windows PC version of Compulife,
Compulife Basic (the mobile edition) or the $96 per year 
web quote option on your website, there is NOTHING you
need to do.  All these services are being updated
AUTOMATICALLY.  




================================================================

The following changes were made and were included with the 
December 2016 monthly update of the Compulife Quotation System:

14.  Lincoln National - quarterly mode removed

December Monthly Update - Lincoln National no longer 
offers quarterly premium payment options for it's life
insurance products.


13.  Pacific Life Insurance Company - preferred health criteria

November 28th (2nd) - We assumed Pacific Life was using 
the same preferred health criteria for their new PL Promise
Term as their Primer Term.  That is not correct.  It is
quite different.

We have now added the preferred health criteria for the
PL Promise Term products.


12.  Pacific Life Insurance Company - conversion correction

November 28th - Pacific Life's new term series call PL 
Promise Term is convertible for the lesser of the level
premium period, or to age 70.  


11.  John Hancock Life - state approval

November 23rd - John Hancock's Vitality term is now 
approved in AK, CT and MD.

John Hancock wanted us to add a connection to the
description of how the product works, to our system, 
but we just don't have that sort of ability.  

We would emphasize that the purpose of the software
is not to give you exhaustive information about the 
market, but rather is designed to give you a means 
to quickly and easily compare similiar products by
price.  After that, if you need further information
about what a product offers, we STRONGLY recommend 
you contact the Home Office or the distribution 
channel that you use.

Here is what John Hancock wanted you to see:

http://www.jhredefininglife.com/how-it-works.php

Copy the link and paste it into your browser.


10.  A.M. Best Ratings

November 18th - We rarely discuss other information we 
update in our software, related to products and rates, 
simply because discussing the VOLUME of such information 
would make these bulletins more difficult to read than 
it appears they are already.

This update includes a number of A.M. Best changes I 
was unable to process due to a week in Florida related
to the copyright infringement lawsuit which Compulife
has commenced in U.S. Federal Court.  

I have now returned and A.M. Best and some other 
changes to the software have been updated.


9.  Pacific Life Insurance Company - new product

November 17th - Pacific Life has introduced a new term 
series call PL Promise Term 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30.  


8.  New York Life - new rates

November 8th - On November 2nd New York Life introduced
new rates for their 10, 15 and 20 year level term plans.
Compulife received the rates at about 5pm this evening.

Previous to the last rate/product change, the company
was still quoting their previous product in NY.  We
have not yet learned if that product has been updated,
so the new rates are in our software for all non-NY
states.  We'll let you know when the company responds
to our questions in that regard.


7.  United Farm Family Life - product name change

November 8th - Untited Farm Family has changed the name
of its term plans from Express Iusse Term 20 and 30 to
Simple Term 20 and 30.  It has also changed the name of
its 20 year ROP term plan from Premier 20 to Simple 
Term 20 ROP.  


6.  United Home Life - product name change

November 8th - Untited Home Life has changed the name
of its term plans from Express Iusse Term 20 and 30 to
Simple Term 20 and 30.  It has also changed the name of
its 20 year ROP term plan from Premier 20 to Simple 
Term 20 ROP.  


5.  Nationwide Life Insurance - new No-Lapse UL rates

November 7th - Nationwide has increased premiums for
its no lapse UL products.  At the time of the release,
the company was unable to provide 10 pay or single pay
rates, so those payment options have been removed.


4.  Sentinel Security Life - new company/product

November 7th - We have added the Simplified Issue 
Whole Life product for Sentinel Security Life.

Our thanks to the subscriber who provided the product
and rates information.  A 10% coupon has been given.


3.  Security National Life - new company/product

November 7th - We have added the Simplified Issue 
Whole Life product for Security National.

Our thanks to the subscriber who provided the product
and rates information.  A 10% coupon has been given.


2.  Mass Mutual Life - state approvals

November 7th - Mass Mutual's new term rates are 
approved in all states except OR.


1.  American Continental Insurance Company - new rates

November 2nd - American Continental has introduced new
rates for its Final Expense product.

Our thanks to the subscriber who brought that to our
attention, and a 10% coupon has been given.
