The following changes have been made to the March 2017  
edition of the Compulife Quotation System:

6.  Nationwide Life Insurance - new term rates

March 13th - Nationwide has introduced new rates for
its 10, 15, 20 and 30 year term products.


5.  Brighthouse Life - correction and Best ratings

March 10th - I neglected to include the one year
term rate files in the last midmonth update, which
had the new company name(s) for MetLife's old
one year term products.

A.M. Best has now changed the ratings info and
is showing ratings for Brighthouse Life.  This
has been updated in our system.


4.  John Hancock Life - state approvals

March 10th - John Hancock's new Vital Term 
rates are now approved in DE, NJ and RI.


3.  MetLife OUT - Brighthouse ADDED

March 6th - MetLife has established a new company
called Brighthouse Financial.  MetLife has ceased
the sale of term product under both:

MetLife Insurance Company USA              and
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company

The term products are now offered under

Brighthouse Life Insurance Company         and
Brighthouse Life Insurance Company of NY

No big deal except for two issues/problems:

a)  A.M. Best ratings - the company has advised
us that Brighthouse has been given the same "A"
rating as given to MetLife.  The problem is that
A.M. Best has not yet published anything about
the two Brighthouse Life Insurance companies and
until they do we cannot publish a rating for
these companies.  We need A.M. Best to clarify 
the situation and we have encouraged the company 
to get on that with A.M. Best.  Those of you 
that use minimum A.M. Best rating filters will
not see the company(s) in your quotes.

b)  If you have used the "Select a Group of
Companies to Quote" function in "Manage 
Product Database", you will need to add
these companies if you want them in your quotes.
The new companies have been issued new codes and
so they appear in the system as brand new companies.


2.  Grange Life Insurance - new term rates

March 6th - Grange Life has introduced new rates for
its 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 year term products.


1.  Pruco Life Insurance - new rates & state approvals

March 6th - Pruco Life's erm Essential products
are now approved in MT and ND.

The company has introduced new no lapse UL rates
that are not yet approved in AK, CA, MA, NY and WY.




================================================================

The following changes were made and were included with the 
March 2017 monthly update of the Compulife Quotation System:

17.  Pruco Life Insurance - new term rates

February 27th - Pruco Life has introduced new rates 
for its 10, 15, 20 and 30 year Term Essential products.
The new rates are not approved in MT and ND.


17.  John Hancok - company forms

March Monthly Update - John Hancock is the newest
edition to the forms library.  

We are still working on categorizing the forms for
products other than single life term, but the forms
are ready for single life term.  Please give us any
feedback on changes you think should be made.

Our thanks to the company for their assistance 
in getting these added.


16.  Pacific Life - state approval

February 27th - Pacific Life's Promise Term is now
approved in FL and SD.


15.  John Hancock Life - state approval

February 24th - John Hancock's new rates are now 
approved in all states including CA.


14.  John Hancock Life - new term rates

February 23rd - John Hancock Life has introduced 
new rates for its 10, 15 and 20 year term products.

The company has also changed its modal factors, 
and because the modal calculation are COMPLEX and
atypical, Compulife has dealt with them by having
a special routine in our software to deal with 
those modal calculations.  Therefore, we have 
introduced a new version of our software to 
go with the new rates.

SEE the WARNING above if you are an internet 
engine user.

The new rates are NOT approved in CA.  Because
the old rates used a different calculation for 
modal premiums, we have TURNED OFF modal premiums
for CA.

The company has also introduced a new rider 
related to unemployment benefits.  This rider is
at an extra cost.  We are not quoting this rider
at this time.  We will wait to hear what demand
there is to be able to quote the rider, before
looking further into it.

The company has also introduced new rate for its
Vitality term.  The problem is that the new 
Vitality rates are NOT approved in:

AK,CA,DE,IL,KS,MA,NJ,OR,PA,RI,WI,WY,GU

whereas the old rates are available.  However,
same problem/issue with modal factor and they
will not quote for the old products.



13.  John Hancock Life of NY - new term rates

February 23rd - John Hancock of NY has introduced 
new rates for its 10, 15 and 20 year term products.


12.  Savings Bank Life Insurance - new rates

February 22nd - SBLI has introduced new rates 
for it's 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 year products.

The same new rates apply to Centrian Life in CT.


11.  North American/Midland Life - CORRECTIONS

February 22nd - I noticed when I was testing the
no lapse UL products, after integrating the new
rates into the general release, that there were
some odd results between the pay to 65, 20 pay 
and 10 pay premiums.

If a client is age 45, then the pay to 65 and 
20 pay premiums should be the same - they were
not.  If the client is 55, then the pay to 65
and 10 pay premiums should be the same - they 
were not.  

I brought this to the attention of the company
and the it turns out that the pay to 65 rates 
that I had been given were wrong.  

We have now entered the new rates, which we 
received today, and they are now correct.

WARNING - in some cases the corrected rates 
are HIGHER than what we had been given.  If 
you gave a Pay to 65, North American or Midland
Life quote to a consumer in the last few days, 
PLEASE CHECK it immediately.  The corrected
premium may be lower, but it could be HIGHER.

The next problem was the monthly premiums for
the pay to age 121 products.  I left the policy
fee set to $60, which is the annual policy fee,
and failed to change it to $5 for the monthly
premiums.  We were overstating monthly premiums
by $55.  That is corrected.


10.  North American Co for Life - new GUL rates

February 18th - North American has introduced new 
rates for it's no lapse, guaranteed UL products.

The new rates are not yet approved for Guarantee
Builder IUL4 in CA, DE and MT.  Until they are 
approved, the IUL3 will be available in those
states.  

Custom Guarantee Gen 8 is approved in all states
except NY.


9.  Midland National Life - new GUL rates

February 18th - Midland National has introduced new 
rates for it's no lapse, guaranteed UL products.

The new rates are not yet approved for XL-DB4 
in CA, DE and MT.  Until they are approved, the 
XL-DB3 will be available in those states.  

Essential Guarantee UL 4 is approved in all states
except NY.


8.  Banner Life - new term rates

February 13th - Banner has introduced new rates for 
its 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 year term products.


7.  William Penn Life - new term rates

February 13th - William Penn has introduced new rates 
for its 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 year term products.


6.  Symetra Life - UL rate changes

February 9th - Earlier today Symetra made some changes
to their rates and we were a little misled as to the 
nature of the change.  Previous Symetra had some lower
premiums for face amount of $1.5 million and higher, for
certain older ages.  Those lower rates are now gone.

The company has also changed the names of their health
classes.


5.  American Americable - Occidental - minimum premium

February 3rd (2nd) - It took about 4 emails, but the 
ccompany(s) has now confirmed that a minimum premius
also applies to all other modes.  This has been fixed.


4.  Minnesota Life - renewal policy fee correction

February 3rd (2nd) - When I changed the product codes in 
item 1 below, I forgot to add the new product code
to the renewal premium.  That is now fixed.


3.  American Amicable Life of Texas - minimum premium

February 3rd - One of Compulife's subscribers brought
to our attention that the Simple Term product minimum
face amount of $50,000 is OK, as long as the monthly 
premium is greater than $20.  We did not have the 
minimum premium set.

The problem has been corrected, and a 10% coupon given
to the customer who brought it to our attention.


2.  Occidental Life of NC - minimum premium

February 3rd - Occidental sells the same Simple
Term products as American Amicable.  We have correct
the premium here as well.


1.  Minnesota Life - policy fee correction

February 2nd - The policy fees for Minnesota Life
eApp products, for $250,000, were incorrect.  The
problem was a hold over from a previous policy fee
reduction the company had been using for their 5
and 10 year term, which was hard-wired into the 
quoting software.  I have changed the codes, and
that resolved the problem.
